---
title: "Breaking into Engineering: Journey as a Junior Developer"
excerpt: "In May 2023, I had the opportunity to interview with Catawiki, a leading online auction platform. At that time, Catawiki did not have any junior developers on board. Fast forward to May 2024, and the landscape has significantly changed. Now, there are more junior developers, including myself, each bringing unique backgrounds and experiences. This shift highlights the growing importance of nurturing new talent in the tech industry. Here’s my story of breaking into engineering, navigating my journey as a junior, and how I ended up here at Catawiki."
coverImage: "/assets/photo/meetup.jpg"
date: "2024-06-18T05:35:07.322Z"
author:
  name: Penny Chiang
  picture: "/assets/blog/authors/penny.jpg"
ogImage:
  url: "/assets/photo/meetup.jpg"
---

_This article content is based on the sharing in the “Breaking into Engineering” meetup at Catawiki HQ on 30 May 2024._

👩‍💻 In May 2023, I had the opportunity to interview with Catawiki, a leading online auction platform. At that time, Catawiki did not have any junior developers on board. Fast forward to May 2024, and the landscape has significantly changed. Now, there are more junior developers, including myself, each bringing unique backgrounds and experiences. This shift highlights the growing importance of nurturing new talent in the tech industry. Here’s my story of breaking into engineering, navigating my journey as a junior, and how I ended up here at Catawiki.

### My Path to Engineering

**💭 When?**

To set the timeline, my academic background is quite diverse. I hold a Bachelor's degree in Chemistry, and I have earned two Master’s degrees—one in Science and another in Business Administration. This eclectic mix of education might not seem like the typical path to a career in software engineering, but it has provided me with a broad perspective and a versatile skill set.

**🧠 What?**

My transition into the tech world began with a focused effort on honing my coding skills. After graduating from the boot camp, I started my first developer job and prepared for my transition from Taiwan to a broader market, which is the Netherlands. Here are some of the key steps I took:

- **Leetcode Challenge:** I committed to a _[30-day JavaScript challenge on Leetcode](https://leetcode.com/discuss/study-guide/3458761/Open-to-Registration!-30-Days-of-LC-JavaScript-Challenge)_. This daily practice was crucial in building my problem-solving skills and familiarity with coding syntax.
- **Interview Preparation:** I watched numerous interview mock videos, especially those that explain web development concepts. This helped me understand what interviewers look for and how to articulate my thoughts clearly.
- **Experience and Projects:** I meticulously listed down my work experiences and projects. During interviews, I shared these insights to demonstrate my practical knowledge and hands-on experience.

**📋 How?**

My journey to securing a position at Catawiki involved a multi-stage interview process:

- **Technical Interview:** This was a rigorous assessment of my coding abilities and problem-solving skills. Preparation through consistent practice on platforms like Leetcode was invaluable. For frontend development, CSS and ReactJS are quite crucial to demonstrate the abilities.
- **Culture Fit Interview:** Also known as the EM (Engineering Manager) interview, this stage evaluated how well I would integrate into the company’s culture. It focused on my interpersonal skills, work ethic, and alignment with Catawiki’s values.

### Networking and Integration

**🇳🇱 Landed in the Netherlands**

Once I landed in the Netherlands, networking became a crucial part of my integration into the tech community. Here are some strategies that worked for me:

- **Networking:** I believe in building genuine connections rather than sending cold messages. Usually, I don’t like to call them “cold” messages, if having this mindset, those messages become unnatural, I rather call them networking or connections.

- **Joining Communities:** Engaging with tech communities has been incredibly beneficial. For example:
  - (1) **Meetups:** Attending events like the TypeScript documentary meetup provided learning opportunities and a chance to meet like-minded professionals.
  - (2) **_[SheSharp](https://www.shesharp.co/)_:** Participating in hackathons and co-working days organized by SheSharp helped me stay motivated and connected.
  - (3) **_[ADPList](https://adplist.org)_:** On-site meetups through ADPList facilitated meaningful interactions and mentorship.

### Continuous Learning and Growth

**⭐ Day-to-Day Life as a Junior Developer**

Working as a junior developer comes with its own set of challenges and learning opportunities. Here are some principles I live by:

- **1-Hour Rule:** If I’m stuck on a problem for more than an hour, I make it a point to ask for help. There are no silly questions, but not asking them can hinder progress.
- **Keep Learning:** Every day is a learning experience. I continuously strive to overcome challenges in my daily work and grow both technically and personally. In December 2023, I tried the _[TypeScripte Challenge](https://typehero.dev/)_, but I didn’t finish it, and neither _[#AdventofCode](https://adventofcode.com/)_. This will be my goal in 2024 to be able to upskill my programming skills.

### Conclusion

My journey from a chemistry graduate to a junior developer is a testament to the power of perseverance, continuous learning, and the importance of community. With these unique backgrounds and stories, people like us collectively contribute to a diverse and dynamic work environment. I believe that sharing my experiences not only helps me reflect on my own growth but also inspires others embarking on similar paths.
